README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
🥳 Ark_Bot 🥳
</h1>

> **Handbook**  
> Version: `v1.0.0` • Date: `<2025-10>` • Author: `Harry Warriner / Ark`

---

<div align = "center">
<img src="assets/tempcoverimg.jpg" alt="Cover Image" title="Cover Image" width="50%">
</div>

## Table of Contents

- [1. Overview](#1-overview)
- [2. Example Videos](#2-example-videos)
- [3. Bill of Materials](#3-bill-of-materials)
- [4. Required Tools](#4-required-tools)
- [5. List of 3D Parts](#5-list-of-3d-parts)

- [6. Specifications](#6-specifications)
- [7. Before You Start](#7-before-you-start)
- [8. Assembly Guide](#8-assembly-guide)

- [9. Motor Configuration](#9-motor-configuration)
- [10. Software Setup](#10-software-setup)
- [11. Calibration](#11-calibration)

- [12. Operation](#12-operation)
- [13. Troubleshooting](#13-troubleshooting)
- [14. FAQ](#14-faq)


---

## 1. Overview

**Purpose:** ArkBot is designed to be an affordable high strength, high accuracy robotic arm you can build at home.  
**Scope:** This handbook covers how to build ArkBot and how to get it running within the Ark Framework.

The ArkBot is a pick-and-place robotic arm designed to be affordable and easy to build at home. With the intention of demonstrating the <a href="https://github.com/Robotics-Ark/ark_framework">ark_framework's</a> capabilities. Comes complete with an accurate URDF file. <br>

<table align="center">
  <tr>
    <td align="center" style="border: none;">
      <img src="assets/zeropos.png" alt="Cover Image" title="Cover Image" width="40%">
    </td>
    <td align="center" style="border: none;">
      <img src="assets/tempzerosim.png" alt="Cover Image" title="Cover Image" width="40%">
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

---

## 2. Example videos

<table>
<tr>
<td ><img src="assets/pickandplace.gif" width="100%" alt="Pick and Place "/></td>
<td >
  <img src="assets/TPUGripper.gif" width="100%" alt="TPU Gripper Example" />
</td>
<td ><img src="assets/shortIK.gif" width="100%" alt="Short IK Example"/></td>

</tr>
</table>

## 3. Bill of Materials.

The parts ordered from either side (amazon or cheapest) are the same parts, the difference is the time and price. The amazon links will come significantly faster whilst the others will take a while longer.
At the bottom though there are two different PLA filaments, the bambu or an equivalent high brand printer filament is reccomended, but if on a budget, the amazon ones will work fine.

| Totals | Amazon Total: | Cheapest Total: |
| ------ | ------------- | --------------- |
|        | £348.12       | £215.86         |

<hr>

<div align = "center" >

| Qty Needed | Name                        | Amazon Price | Amazon Link                                                                                        | Cheapest Price | Cheapest Link                                                                                                          |
| ---------- | --------------------------- | ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 7          | ST 3215 Servos              | £26.99 (x7)  | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Waveshare-Servo-Precision-Programmable-Switchable/dp/B0B6HSBRGF) | £20.10 (x7)    | [Robotshop](https://uk.robotshop.com/products/waveshare-30kg-serial-bus-servo-high-precision-torque-w-360-deg-encoder) |
| 1          | Servo Bus Driver            | £9.99 (x1)   | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Waveshare-Integrates-Control-Applicable-Integrate/dp/B0CJ6TP3TP) | £4.80 (x1)     | [PiHut](https://thepihut.com/products/serial-bus-servo-driver-board)                                                   |
| 36         | 693-2z (Tiny Bearings)      | £9.89 (x2)   | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/sourcing-map-Groove-Bearing-Bearings/dp/B07FXVZ4W4)              | £2.31 (x4)     | [AliExpress](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/1005005858463502.html)                                                    |
| 12         | 6802-2RS (Medium Bearings)  | £9.79 (x2)   | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/dp/B07FXY8YHK)                                                   | £3.23 (x2)     | [AliExpress](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/1005006082431261.html)                                                    |
| 5          | 6706-2RS (Big Bearings)     | £12.19 (x1)  | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/sourcing-map-30x37x4mm-Precision-Lubricated/dp/B0D6WJX2K5)       | £1.27 (x5)     | [AliExpress](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/1005003619960721.html)                                                    |
| 6          | 6810-2RS (Massive Bearings) | £26.29 (x1)  | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/sourcing-map-50x65x7mm-Precision-Lubricated/dp/B0D728SYYT)       | £10.39 (x1)    | [AliExpress](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/32842423917.html)                                                         |
| 1          | 10cm 30x30 Aluminium Extr.  | £2.27 (x1)   | [Amazon](https://www.aluminium-profile.co.uk/30x30-aluminium-profile-kjn990720/)                   | £2.27 (x1)     | [Aluminium-Profile](https://www.aluminium-profile.co.uk/30x30-aluminium-profile-kjn990720/)                            |
| 1          | 20cm 30x30 Aluminium Extr.  | £3.35 (x1)   | [Amazon](https://www.aluminium-profile.co.uk/30x30-aluminium-profile-kjn990720/)                   | £3.35 (x1)     | [Aluminium-Profile](https://www.aluminium-profile.co.uk/30x30-aluminium-profile-kjn990720/)                            |
| 12         | M3 30x30 T-nuts (100)       | £7.89 (x1)   | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/sourcing-map-Fastener-Aluminum-Accessories/dp/B0D5XK6SL1)        | £3.46 (x1)     | [AliExpress](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/1005005553086770.html)                                                    |
| 1          | Box of M3 Screws            | £7.88 (x1)   | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Assortment-Stainless-Replacement-Machine-Fastener/dp/B0B3MGZ7T2) | £7.88 (x1)     | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Assortment-Stainless-Replacement-Machine-Fastener/dp/B0B3MGZ7T2)                     |
| 50         | Threaded Inserts (100)      | £7.99 (x1)   | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/HANGLIFE-Threaded-Inserts-Printing-Components/dp/B0CS6VZYL8)     | £0.98 (x1)     | [AliExpress](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/1005008666672949.html)                                                    |
| 2          | 1kg of PLA                  | £20.99 (x2)  | [BambuLab](https://uk.store.bambulab.com/products/pla-basic-filament)                              | £9.99 (x2)     | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/PLA-Filament-Tolerance-Materials-Compatible/dp/B0DCJ7TTDK)                           |

</div>

---

## 4. Required Tools

This is a list of the most basic tools required to build the Ark_bot, additionally it is reccomended to have a drill and pliers, just to improve quality of assembly.

<div align="center">

| List of tools Required  |
| ----------------------- |
| 3D printer              |
| Soldering Iron          |
| 5mm 12v DC power supply |
| m3 Hex Key              |
| wire cutters            |
| electrical tape         |
| electrical wires        |
| Clamps                  |

</div>

---

## 5. List of 3D parts

> Release `v1.0.0` Parts List (Grouped by Subsystem)

<div align="center">

| **Base**                         | **Cyclodial Drive**                  | **Links**                  | **Claw**                       | **Limbs**               |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | -------------------------- | ------------------------------ | ----------------------- |
| 1 × Base                         | 2 × Motor Holders                    | 1 × Link 3 Body            | 2 × Claw Connector             | 2 × Limb Motor Side     |
| 2 × Base Bearing Cover           | 2 × Bearing Holder Disk (Exterior)   | 2 × Link3 and 5 Motor Side | 1 × Claw Bottom Case           | 2 × Limb Non Motor Side |
| 1 × Base Motor Holder            | 2 × Cyclodial Drive Exterior         | 2 × Link3 and 5 Side       | 1 × Claw Runners               |                         |
| 1 × Joint 1 Base                 | 2 × Cyclodial Drive Exterior Top     | 1 × Link4                  | 2 × Claw Body                  |                         |
| 1 × Joint 1 Connector to Joint 2 | 1 × Cyclodial Drive Other Half       | 1 × Link5 Body             | 4 × Claw Runner Clamp          |                         |
|                                  | 3 × Eccentric Rod Motor Connector    |                            | 2 × Claw Link                  |                         |
|                                  | 18 × Internal Cyclodial Drive Spacer |                            | 2 × Finger                     |                         |
|                                  | 6 × Cyclodial Disk                   |                            | 1 × Claw Motor Driver          |                         |
|                                  | 3 × Cyclodial Driver Interior Top    |                            | 2 × Claw Motor Holder Link Pin |                         |
|                                  | 3 × Eccentric Rod Middle             |                            | 2 × Claw Link Motor            |                         |
|                                  | 3 × Eccentric Rod Top                |                            | 2 × Claw Link Cap              |                         |
|                                  | 3 × Cyclodial Driver Interior Bottom |                            |                                |                         |

---

**Total Parts: 86**

</div>

---

## 6. Specifications

| Parameter     | Value  |
| ------------- | ------ |
| Reach         | 1 m    |
| Weight        | 2.6 kg |
| Payload       | 1.8kg  |
| DOF           | 6      |
| Input Voltage | DC12V  |

---

## 7. Before You Start

When 3D printing, the Cyclodial Disks, ensure that the diameter of the 6 holes on the outside are exactly 12mm in diamter, and that the disk fits near perfectly in the exterior.

<div align = "center">
<img src="assets/Beforeyoustartimg.png" alt="Cover Image" title="Cover Image" width="50%">
</div>

The better the fit the more accurate the final positioning will be.

> This is the only note with the 3D prininting, as long as these two parts work. Everything else can be printed on random settings, of course the higher the infill the stronger the final parts.

---

## 8. Assembly Guide

> ⏱ **Total time:** <estimate, 120 minutes>  
> 🧰 **Skill level:** Intermediate

---

## 9. Motor Configuration

Connect the indivual motor to the driver board.

Go to the configuration.py file in arkbot. <a href="arkbot\Configuration.py">Config file</a>

Make sure the config is correct in the file:

```python
if __name__ == "__main__":
    DEVICENAME = "COM7"       # or "/dev/ttyUSB0"
    BAUDRATE   = 1_000_000
```

Then run the program, it will tell you the ID number of the motor, if this is not correct, change it to the number associated to that motor.

---

## 10. Software Setup

### Ark Framework

Go to the Ark Framework repo and follow the instructions there.

Make sure Ark Registry is running.

Make sure arkbot.py is also running (in a different terminal)

Then use the jupyter notebook in tests, if using sim, make sure sim_node.py is running. And that sim=true in the config of the jupyter notebook.

**Configure:**
Make sure the port is correct in the .yaml file.

```json
{
  real_config:
        port: "/dev/ttyACM0"
        baudrate: 1000000
}
```

---

## 11. Calibration

You should be able to carefully move the cyclodial drives and the motors when powered off. Move ArkBot so that it is completly facing upwards, and plug it in. Run the configuration.py file, and when promted set all the midpoint positions.

Power cycle the robotic arm, and run the configuration code, and when promted go to output and read the current ticks of all the motors. These then need to be put into the arkbot.yaml file:

```json
home_ticks:
          {
            "1": 2800,
            "2": 2431,
            "3": 2093,
            "4": 2050,
            "5": 2059,
            "6": 2020,
            "7": 1011,
          }
```

Next is the home loop configuration. The robotic arm must start from the position below. (Only matters for the first 3 motors) These motors rotate multiple times due to the gear ratio. Therefore the loops to get the [0,0,0,...] position must also be inputted:

```json
home_loops: {
    "1": 0, "2": 3, "3": 3, "4": 0, "5": 0, "6": 0, "7": 0
    }
```

Now run the jupyter notebook and send it to [0,0,0,...] if it goes straight up then the calibration was a succsess.

<img src="assets/zeropos.png" alt="Cover Image" title="Cover Image" width="15%">

> ✅ **Pass criteria:** When sent to [0,0,0,...] it goes straight up

---

## 12. Operation

- Ensure that it is in the starting position.
- Power on and send to home.
- If succseful, enjoy using ArkBot!

---

## 13. Troubleshooting

| Symptom          | Possible Causes                     | Fix             |
| ---------------- | ----------------------------------- | --------------- |
| Won’t power on   | 12V Cable Not Plugged in            | Plug it in      |
| Jittery motion   | Cyclodial disks not correct size    | Reprint to size |
| Massive Backlash | Plastic could have worn and snapped | Reprint parts   |

---

## 14. FAQ

**Q:**
**A:**

**Q:**
**A:**

---

Commit message:

Added Assembly Video
Added an image which can be clicked to direct you to the video. and added a link which also works

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
🥳 Ark_Bot 🥳
</h1>

> **Handbook**  
> Version: `v1.0.0` • Date: `<2025-10>` • Author: `Harry Warriner / Ark`

---

<div align = "center">
<img src="assets/tempcoverimg.jpg" alt="Cover Image" title="Cover Image" width="50%">
</div>

## Table of Contents

- [1. Overview](#1-overview)
- [2. Example Videos](#2-example-videos)
- [3. Bill of Materials](#3-bill-of-materials)
- [4. Required Tools](#4-required-tools)
- [5. List of 3D Parts](#5-list-of-3d-parts)

- [6. Specifications](#6-specifications)
- [7. Before You Start](#7-before-you-start)
- [8. Assembly Guide](#8-assembly-guide)

- [9. Motor Configuration](#9-motor-configuration)
- [10. Software Setup](#10-software-setup)
- [11. Calibration](#11-calibration)

- [12. Operation](#12-operation)
- [13. Troubleshooting](#13-troubleshooting)
- [14. FAQ](#14-faq)


---

## 1. Overview

**Purpose:** ArkBot is designed to be an affordable high strength, high accuracy robotic arm you can build at home.  
**Scope:** This handbook covers how to build ArkBot and how to get it running within the Ark Framework.

The ArkBot is a pick-and-place robotic arm designed to be affordable and easy to build at home. With the intention of demonstrating the <a href="https://github.com/Robotics-Ark/ark_framework">ark_framework's</a> capabilities. Comes complete with an accurate URDF file. <br>

<table align="center">
  <tr>
    <td align="center" style="border: none;">
      <img src="assets/zeropos.png" alt="Cover Image" title="Cover Image" width="40%">
    </td>
    <td align="center" style="border: none;">
      <img src="assets/tempzerosim.png" alt="Cover Image" title="Cover Image" width="40%">
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

---

## 2. Example videos

<table>
<tr>
<td ><img src="assets/pickandplace.gif" width="100%" alt="Pick and Place "/></td>
<td >
  <img src="assets/TPUGripper.gif" width="100%" alt="TPU Gripper Example" />
</td>
<td ><img src="assets/shortIK.gif" width="100%" alt="Short IK Example"/></td>

</tr>
</table>

## 3. Bill of Materials.

The parts ordered from either side (amazon or cheapest) are the same parts, the difference is the time and price. The amazon links will come significantly faster whilst the others will take a while longer.
At the bottom though there are two different PLA filaments, the bambu or an equivalent high brand printer filament is reccomended, but if on a budget, the amazon ones will work fine.

| Totals | Amazon Total: | Cheapest Total: |
| ------ | ------------- | --------------- |
|        | £348.12       | £215.86         |

<hr>

<div align = "center" >

| Qty Needed | Name                        | Amazon Price | Amazon Link                                                                                        | Cheapest Price | Cheapest Link                                                                                                          |
| ---------- | --------------------------- | ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 7          | ST 3215 Servos              | £26.99 (x7)  | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Waveshare-Servo-Precision-Programmable-Switchable/dp/B0B6HSBRGF) | £20.10 (x7)    | [Robotshop](https://uk.robotshop.com/products/waveshare-30kg-serial-bus-servo-high-precision-torque-w-360-deg-encoder) |
| 1          | Servo Bus Driver            | £9.99 (x1)   | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Waveshare-Integrates-Control-Applicable-Integrate/dp/B0CJ6TP3TP) | £4.80 (x1)     | [PiHut](https://thepihut.com/products/serial-bus-servo-driver-board)                                                   |
| 36         | 693-2z (Tiny Bearings)      | £9.89 (x2)   | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/sourcing-map-Groove-Bearing-Bearings/dp/B07FXVZ4W4)              | £2.31 (x4)     | [AliExpress](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/1005005858463502.html)                                                    |
| 12         | 6802-2RS (Medium Bearings)  | £9.79 (x2)   | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/dp/B07FXY8YHK)                                                   | £3.23 (x2)     | [AliExpress](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/1005006082431261.html)                                                    |
| 5          | 6706-2RS (Big Bearings)     | £12.19 (x1)  | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/sourcing-map-30x37x4mm-Precision-Lubricated/dp/B0D6WJX2K5)       | £1.27 (x5)     | [AliExpress](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/1005003619960721.html)                                                    |
| 6          | 6810-2RS (Massive Bearings) | £26.29 (x1)  | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/sourcing-map-50x65x7mm-Precision-Lubricated/dp/B0D728SYYT)       | £10.39 (x1)    | [AliExpress](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/32842423917.html)                                                         |
| 1          | 10cm 30x30 Aluminium Extr.  | £2.27 (x1)   | [Amazon](https://www.aluminium-profile.co.uk/30x30-aluminium-profile-kjn990720/)                   | £2.27 (x1)     | [Aluminium-Profile](https://www.aluminium-profile.co.uk/30x30-aluminium-profile-kjn990720/)                            |
| 1          | 20cm 30x30 Aluminium Extr.  | £3.35 (x1)   | [Amazon](https://www.aluminium-profile.co.uk/30x30-aluminium-profile-kjn990720/)                   | £3.35 (x1)     | [Aluminium-Profile](https://www.aluminium-profile.co.uk/30x30-aluminium-profile-kjn990720/)                            |
| 12         | M3 30x30 T-nuts (100)       | £7.89 (x1)   | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/sourcing-map-Fastener-Aluminum-Accessories/dp/B0D5XK6SL1)        | £3.46 (x1)     | [AliExpress](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/1005005553086770.html)                                                    |
| 1          | Box of M3 Screws            | £7.88 (x1)   | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Assortment-Stainless-Replacement-Machine-Fastener/dp/B0B3MGZ7T2) | £7.88 (x1)     | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Assortment-Stainless-Replacement-Machine-Fastener/dp/B0B3MGZ7T2)                     |
| 50         | Threaded Inserts (100)      | £7.99 (x1)   | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/HANGLIFE-Threaded-Inserts-Printing-Components/dp/B0CS6VZYL8)     | £0.98 (x1)     | [AliExpress](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/1005008666672949.html)                                                    |
| 2          | 1kg of PLA                  | £20.99 (x2)  | [BambuLab](https://uk.store.bambulab.com/products/pla-basic-filament)                              | £9.99 (x2)     | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.co.uk/PLA-Filament-Tolerance-Materials-Compatible/dp/B0DCJ7TTDK)                           |

</div>

---

## 4. Required Tools

This is a list of the most basic tools required to build the Ark_bot, additionally it is reccomended to have a drill and pliers, just to improve quality of assembly.

<div align="center">

| List of tools Required  |
| ----------------------- |
| 3D printer              |
| Soldering Iron          |
| 5mm 12v DC power supply |
| m3 Hex Key              |
| wire cutters            |
| electrical tape         |
| electrical wires        |
| Clamps                  |

</div>

---

## 5. List of 3D parts

> Release `v1.0.0` Parts List (Grouped by Subsystem)

<div align="center">

| **Base**                         | **Cyclodial Drive**                  | **Links**                  | **Claw**                       | **Limbs**               |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | -------------------------- | ------------------------------ | ----------------------- |
| 1 × Base                         | 2 × Motor Holders                    | 1 × Link 3 Body            | 2 × Claw Connector             | 2 × Limb Motor Side     |
| 2 × Base Bearing Cover           | 2 × Bearing Holder Disk (Exterior)   | 2 × Link3 and 5 Motor Side | 1 × Claw Bottom Case           | 2 × Limb Non Motor Side |
| 1 × Base Motor Holder            | 2 × Cyclodial Drive Exterior         | 2 × Link3 and 5 Side       | 1 × Claw Runners               |                         |
| 1 × Joint 1 Base                 | 2 × Cyclodial Drive Exterior Top     | 1 × Link4                  | 2 × Claw Body                  |                         |
| 1 × Joint 1 Connector to Joint 2 | 1 × Cyclodial Drive Other Half       | 1 × Link5 Body             | 4 × Claw Runner Clamp          |                         |
|                                  | 3 × Eccentric Rod Motor Connector    |                            | 2 × Claw Link                  |                         |
|                                  | 18 × Internal Cyclodial Drive Spacer |                            | 2 × Finger                     |                         |
|                                  | 6 × Cyclodial Disk                   |                            | 1 × Claw Motor Driver          |                         |
|                                  | 3 × Cyclodial Driver Interior Top    |                            | 2 × Claw Motor Holder Link Pin |                         |
|                                  | 3 × Eccentric Rod Middle             |                            | 2 × Claw Link Motor            |                         |
|                                  | 3 × Eccentric Rod Top                |                            | 2 × Claw Link Cap              |                         |
|                                  | 3 × Cyclodial Driver Interior Bottom |                            |                                |                         |

---

**Total Parts: 86**

</div>

---

## 6. Specifications

| Parameter     | Value  |
| ------------- | ------ |
| Reach         | 1 m    |
| Weight        | 2.6 kg |
| Payload       | 1.8kg  |
| DOF           | 6      |
| Input Voltage | DC12V  |

---

## 7. Before You Start

When 3D printing, the Cyclodial Disks, ensure that the diameter of the 6 holes on the outside are exactly 12mm in diamter, and that the disk fits near perfectly in the exterior.

<div align = "center">
<img src="assets/Beforeyoustartimg.png" alt="Cover Image" title="Cover Image" width="50%">
</div>

The better the fit the more accurate the final positioning will be.

> This is the only note with the 3D prininting, as long as these two parts work. Everything else can be printed on random settings, of course the higher the infill the stronger the final parts.

---

## 8. Assembly Guide

> ⏱ **Total time:** <estimate, 120 minutes>  
> 🧰 **Skill level:** Intermediate
<div align="center">
  
[![Assembly](https://img.youtube.com/vi/Kuk4pC0EaEw/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kuk4pC0EaEw)

If clicking the above video did not work, click [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kuk4pC0EaEw)

</div>
---

## 9. Motor Configuration

Connect the indivual motor to the driver board.

Go to the configuration.py file in arkbot. <a href="arkbot\Configuration.py">Config file</a>

Make sure the config is correct in the file:

```python
if __name__ == "__main__":
    DEVICENAME = "COM7"       # or "/dev/ttyUSB0"
    BAUDRATE   = 1_000_000
```

Then run the program, it will tell you the ID number of the motor, if this is not correct, change it to the number associated to that motor.

---

## 10. Software Setup

### Ark Framework

Go to the Ark Framework repo and follow the instructions there.

Make sure Ark Registry is running.

Make sure arkbot.py is also running (in a different terminal)

Then use the jupyter notebook in tests, if using sim, make sure sim_node.py is running. And that sim=true in the config of the jupyter notebook.

**Configure:**
Make sure the port is correct in the .yaml file.

```json
{
  real_config:
        port: "/dev/ttyACM0"
        baudrate: 1000000
}
```

---

## 11. Calibration

You should be able to carefully move the cyclodial drives and the motors when powered off. Move ArkBot so that it is completly facing upwards, and plug it in. Run the configuration.py file, and when promted set all the midpoint positions.

Power cycle the robotic arm, and run the configuration code, and when promted go to output and read the current ticks of all the motors. These then need to be put into the arkbot.yaml file:

```json
home_ticks:
          {
            "1": 2800,
            "2": 2431,
            "3": 2093,
            "4": 2050,
            "5": 2059,
            "6": 2020,
            "7": 1011,
          }
```

Next is the home loop configuration. The robotic arm must start from the position below. (Only matters for the first 3 motors) These motors rotate multiple times due to the gear ratio. Therefore the loops to get the [0,0,0,...] position must also be inputted:

```json
home_loops: {
    "1": 0, "2": 3, "3": 3, "4": 0, "5": 0, "6": 0, "7": 0
    }
```

Now run the jupyter notebook and send it to [0,0,0,...] if it goes straight up then the calibration was a succsess.

<img src="assets/zeropos.png" alt="Cover Image" title="Cover Image" width="15%">

> ✅ **Pass criteria:** When sent to [0,0,0,...] it goes straight up

---

## 12. Operation

- Ensure that it is in the starting position.
- Power on and send to home.
- If succseful, enjoy using ArkBot!

---

## 13. Troubleshooting

| Symptom          | Possible Causes                     | Fix             |
| ---------------- | ----------------------------------- | --------------- |
| Won’t power on   | 12V Cable Not Plugged in            | Plug it in      |
| Jittery motion   | Cyclodial disks not correct size    | Reprint to size |
| Massive Backlash | Plastic could have worn and snapped | Reprint parts   |

---

## 14. FAQ

**Q:**
**A:**

**Q:**
**A:**

---
